Chapter 1: The Toys Need Help

A long train was carrying toys and good food to children on the other side of the mountain. The train had toy elephants, giraffes, and dolls. It also had milk and apples.
All the toys and food were for good little boys and girls. But then something bad happened. The engine pulling the train broke down. It could not move another inch.
"What will we do?" asked the toy clown. "The children are waiting for us!" said the toy elephant. "We need help," said all the toys together. "We must get over the mountain!"
The toys looked down the track. They saw another engine coming their way. It was a big, strong passenger engine. Maybe this engine would help them get over the mountain.

---

Chapter 2: Big Engines Say No

The toys called out to the big passenger engine. "Please help us! We need to get over the mountain to the children!" But the big engine shook his head.
"I do not pull toy trains," said the passenger engine. "I only pull important people in fancy cars. I am too important for your job." And away he went.
Soon another engine came down the track. This one was a big freight engine. He was strong and could pull heavy things. Surely he would help the toys!
"Please help us!" called the toys. But the freight engine said, "I am too tired. I have been working all day pulling heavy cars. Find someone else to help you."

---

Chapter 3: Little Engine Volunteers

The toys were feeling very sad. Two big, strong engines had said no. How would they ever get to the children on the other side of the mountain?
Then they heard a little voice. "Maybe I can help you," said a small blue engine. She was much smaller than the other engines. She had never pulled a train over a mountain before.
"You are very small," said the toy clown. "Do you think you are strong enough?" The Little Blue Engine looked at the mountain. It was very high and steep.
"I have never done it before," said the Little Blue Engine. "But I will try! The children need their toys and food. I think I can do it!"

---

Chapter 4: Going Up the Mountain

The Little Blue Engine hooked herself to the train. She took a deep breath. The mountain looked very tall. But she was determined to help the toys get to the children.
She started to pull. The train was heavy with all the toys and food. At first, it was hard to get moving. But slowly, the Little Blue Engine began to chug up the track.
The mountain got steeper and steeper. The Little Blue Engine huffed and puffed. She was working harder than she had ever worked before. But she did not give up.
The toys watched as the Little Blue Engine struggled up the mountain. They cheered for her. "You can do it!" they called. "We believe in you!" The engine smiled and kept going.

---

Chapter 5: I Think I Can!

The mountain was getting steeper. The Little Blue Engine was getting tired. But she kept saying to herself, "I think I can! I think I can! I think I can!"
With each chug up the mountain, she said it again. "I think I can! I think I can!" The words gave her strength. She kept pulling the heavy train.
The toys began to say it with her. "I think I can! I think I can!" they all chanted together. Their voices echoed off the mountain walls.
Higher and higher they climbed. The Little Blue Engine was working so hard. But she never stopped believing in herself. "I think I can! I think I can! I think I can!"

---

Chapter 6: Success and Celebration

Finally, after much hard work, the Little Blue Engine reached the top of the mountain! She had done it! She had pulled the train all the way up the steep mountain.
Now going down the other side was easy. As they rolled down toward the town, the Little Blue Engine said happily, "I thought I could! I thought I could! I thought I could!"
The toys cheered loudly. "Hooray for the Little Blue Engine!" they shouted. "She saved the day! The children will get their toys and food because of her!"
The Little Blue Engine felt very proud. She had learned that being small did not matter. What mattered was trying your best and never giving up. She knew she could do anything!