The Little Engine That Could
BedrockELA 2nd Grade Chapter Book
Quarter 1, Book 2
6 Chapters with Vocabulary & Comprehension Questions

Chapter 1: The Toys Need Help
Page 1
A long train was carrying toys and good food to children on the other side of the mountain. The train had toy elephants, giraffes, and dolls. It also had milk and apples.
Page 2
All the toys and food were for good little boys and girls. But then something bad happened. The engine pulling the train broke down. It could not move another inch.
Page 3
"What will we do?" asked the toy clown. "The children are waiting for us!" said the toy elephant. "We need help," said all the toys together. "We must get over the mountain!"
Page 4
The toys looked down the track. They saw another engine coming their way. It was a big, strong passenger engine. Maybe this engine would help them get over the mountain.
Chapter 1 Vocabulary
1. carrying - taking something from one place to another
2. broke down - stopped working
Chapter 1 Comprehension Questions
1. What was the train carrying?
	•	Books and pencils
	•	Toys and food
	•	Clothes and shoes
2. What happened to the engine?
	•	It ran out of gas
	•	It broke down
	•	It got lost

Chapter 2: Big Engines Say No
Page 1
The toys called out to the big passenger engine. "Please help us! We need to get over the mountain to the children!" But the big engine shook his head.
Page 2
"I do not pull toy trains," said the passenger engine. "I only pull important people in fancy cars. I am too important for your job." And away he went.
Page 3
Soon another engine came down the track. This one was a big freight engine. He was strong and could pull heavy things. Surely he would help the toys!
Page 4
"Please help us!" called the toys. But the freight engine said, "I am too tired. I have been working all day pulling heavy cars. Find someone else to help you."
Chapter 2 Vocabulary
1. important - having great value or meaning
2. freight - goods or cargo carried by train
Chapter 2 Comprehension Questions
1. Why wouldn't the passenger engine help?
	•	He was too small
	•	He thought he was too important
	•	He was broken
2. What excuse did the freight engine give?
	•	He was too busy
	•	He was too tired
	•	He was too fast

Chapter 3: Little Engine Volunteers
Page 1
The toys were feeling very sad. Two big, strong engines had said no. How would they ever get to the children on the other side of the mountain?
Page 2
Then they heard a little voice. "Maybe I can help you," said a small blue engine. She was much smaller than the other engines. She had never pulled a train over a mountain before.
Page 3
"You are very small," said the toy clown. "Do you think you are strong enough?" The Little Blue Engine looked at the mountain. It was very high and steep.
Page 4
"I have never done it before," said the Little Blue Engine. "But I will try! The children need their toys and food. I think I can do it!"
Chapter 3 Vocabulary
1. volunteers - offers to help without being asked
2. steep - having a sharp slope; very hard to climb
Chapter 3 Comprehension Questions
1. What color was the little engine?
	•	Red
	•	Blue
	•	Green
2. Had the Little Blue Engine ever pulled a train over a mountain before?
	•	Yes, many times
	•	No, never
	•	Yes, once before

Chapter 4: Going Up the Mountain
Page 1
The Little Blue Engine hooked herself to the train. She took a deep breath. The mountain looked very tall. But she was determined to help the toys get to the children.
Page 2
She started to pull. The train was heavy with all the toys and food. At first, it was hard to get moving. But slowly, the Little Blue Engine began to chug up the track.
Page 3
The mountain got steeper and steeper. The Little Blue Engine huffed and puffed. She was working harder than she had ever worked before. But she did not give up.
Page 4
The toys watched as the Little Blue Engine struggled up the mountain. They cheered for her. "You can do it!" they called. "We believe in you!" The engine smiled and kept going.
Chapter 4 Vocabulary
1. determined - having made up your mind to do something
2. struggled - tried very hard to do something difficult
Chapter 4 Comprehension Questions
1. What made the train hard to pull?
	•	It was very long
	•	It was heavy with toys and food
	•	It had no wheels
2. How did the toys help the Little Blue Engine?
	•	They pushed the train
	•	They cheered for her
	•	They got out and walked

Chapter 5: I Think I Can!
Page 1
The mountain was getting steeper. The Little Blue Engine was getting tired. But she kept saying to herself, "I think I can! I think I can! I think I can!"
Page 2
With each chug up the mountain, she said it again. "I think I can! I think I can!" The words gave her strength. She kept pulling the heavy train.
Page 3
The toys began to say it with her. "I think I can! I think I can!" they all chanted together. Their voices echoed off the mountain walls.
Page 4
Higher and higher they climbed. The Little Blue Engine was working so hard. But she never stopped believing in herself. "I think I can! I think I can! I think I can!"
Chapter 5 Vocabulary
1. strength - the power to do hard things
2. echoed - bounced back as a repeated sound
Chapter 5 Comprehension Questions
1. What did the Little Blue Engine keep saying to herself?
	•	"I am strong!"
	•	"I think I can!"
	•	"I am fast!"
2. Who started saying the words with the Little Blue Engine?
	•	The other engines
	•	The toys
	•	The children

Chapter 6: Success and Celebration
Page 1
Finally, after much hard work, the Little Blue Engine reached the top of the mountain! She had done it! She had pulled the train all the way up the steep mountain.
Page 2
Now going down the other side was easy. As they rolled down toward the town, the Little Blue Engine said happily, "I thought I could! I thought I could! I thought I could!"
Page 3
The toys cheered loudly. "Hooray for the Little Blue Engine!" they shouted. "She saved the day! The children will get their toys and food because of her!"
Page 4
The Little Blue Engine felt very proud. She had learned that being small did not matter. What mattered was trying your best and never giving up. She knew she could do anything!
Chapter 6 Vocabulary
1. success - doing what you set out to do
2. proud - feeling good about what you have done
Chapter 6 Comprehension Questions
1. What did the Little Blue Engine say as she went down the mountain?
	•	"I knew I could!"
	•	"I thought I could!"
	•	"That was easy!"
2. What lesson did the Little Blue Engine learn?
	•	Big engines are always better
	•	Being small doesn't matter if you try your best
	•	Mountains are easy to climb

Answer Key
Chapter 1
1. b) Toys and food
2. b) It broke down
Chapter 2
1. b) He thought he was too important
2. b) He was too tired
Chapter 3
1. b) Blue
2. b) No, never
Chapter 4
1. b) It was heavy with toys and food
2. b) They cheered for her
Chapter 5
1. b) "I think I can!"
2. b) The toys
Chapter 6
1. b) "I thought I could!"
2. b) Being small doesn't matter if you try your best
End of Book 2
